MIS40750 – Assignment 1
Ian Brady (15203975)
October 2015

Aim: Minimize total road transportation costs
As it is only road transportation costs that will determine where the plant is built there are many other factors that don’t need to be considered, including:
	-Cost of land where plant is to be built
	-Shipping costs and where the product is being shipped to
	-Location of existing plants
The only information given that will help determine these costs is the co-ordinates of raw material and port locations. 
As no road/infrastructure/traffic/toll information is provided, I will calculate the shortest distance between each raw material location and port, and assume 
that this will determine the costs. I will use the Distance between two points/length of a line formula: SQRT((x2-x1)^2+(y2-y1)^2) in doing so.

Process:
I firstly used the Command Prompt to take a quick look at the renewable.db database. I ran ‘.tables’ to find two tables named locations and ports. In Spyder, 
I imported sqlite3 and pandas libraries to read in the database, and store it to a dataframe, respectively. I then created the following five functions.

distance
Takes in two points (two x values, two y values) and calculates the distance using the above equation.

route_distances
This takes in two dataframes, which will be locations and ports in this case, and iterates through both. Starting at the first row of locations, i.e. the first 
location, it calculates the distance between it and each of the three ports. A column is created for each port to store its distance to each. The process is 
repeated for each plant.

shorter_route
A function to determine which of two routes is shorter in distance.

profit_per_route
As the production levels are given for each location, I decided to use them in an attempt to calculate which plant to port route would generate more profit. 
(Assuming that there is a fixed cost rate per unit produced per unit of distance travelled and a selling price per unit, with profit equalling to sales value 
minus the cost. I did this with the expectation that the shortest route would not necessarily be the most profitable. I also incorporated a limit parameter that 
could be used if the demand or transportation capabilities were expected to be less than the units produced.)

route_analysis
This function iterates through each row of the updated locations table. At each row it then iterates through the last three columns giving the distance between 
the plant and each port. It calls upon the shorter_route and profit_per_route functions to determine the lowest costing route, and i.e. where the plant should be 
built.

Findings:
The plant should be built at Raw Material Location 4 which is closet to port 2. As it happens, most units are also produced at this location. Therefore, this will 
always be the most profitable route, given the implemented standard costs/sales value, and my analysis of such was not needed. However, this may be useful in other 
circumstances.
